hi
i'm going to be talking today about core
implementations hopefully you can all
see
see my screen um this has been a big
year as molly kind of talked about
um dht obviously a huge thing there
uh but so much else went on um
going back and just reading through the
blog to see where we were at
i realized that like earlier this year
let's see the async weight refactor
landed in javascript which was a huge
undertaking
in 2019 it took a very long time
and usability there was was huge for
javascript
one of the biggest things for me
personally is debugability that that
helped improve
um i don't know if you've if you've
worked in the javascript environment
before in js uh i ipfs or lippy to p
you might have seen these like nightmare
uh stack traces
trying to debug what's going on that has
improved a lot
just because of the refactor here and
what's nice is also in the part of that
release of that
we did a big reflection on what what
does it take to do a large refactor like
this what did we do wrong
and so you can check out that blog post
on on big refactors there
that alan posted earlier this year and
try to avoid doing these large things in
in the future
um but we definitely want to make sure
that we're doing refactors as we go
from there another thing a big goal in
the
first half of the year was to work on
developer improvement in addition to
improving the dht or developer
enablement and one of the things that js
ipfs has done really well this year is
streamlining that release pipeline
so now every merge to master is in rc so
you can npm install next
and always get the latest and greatest
and test that out
with that we've also really this nasty
mind map
of repositories going on here
doing a like getting a feature change
out the door sometimes would take
pr's across multiple repositories and
those would all have to get landed
together
and it was a nightmare to deal with
we've really coalesced a lot of that to
make it easier in the ipfs repo
and now we've kind of been able to
release a lot of those dependencies
all together kind of moving to a
monorepo for all of those things that
that
don't really make sense to be separated
um
then dht and bit swap improvements so
really all of this stuff
from 0.5 through 0.7 so much work went
into this we'll kind of talk about
the dhc performance improvements a
little bit more and then bitswap as well
but this was a huge undertaking that
took a good part of
the first quarter well into the second
quarter and then we've had a trickling
of updates since then so talking a
little bit about
the dht and bit swap improvements so
the dht right was was
not very performant and i'll kind of
walk through some of these initial
metrics here
so what we did is we got together with
test ground um as test ground was being
built we were kind of
doing these things in parallel which was
really huge um and here you can see kind
of
some of the uh test ground benchmarks
that we put in place so these
aren't based on the live network in this
this is everything that we've pulled
directly from test ground
so we've had huge gains in go from
ipfs0423 to ipfs 0.5
and it's continued to get better such
significant
improvements there so a lot of work a
lot of benefit um
it's been really great looking at these
these fine times
over time like finding content on the
network so we go back to ipfs0423
um you can probably hard to see here but
in the
95th percentile our find times were
at 45 seconds and so this was
like we were running this our metrics
are being collected on the live network
um what we do is we we have a cron job
where we will
spin up some nodes we'll provide some
content we'll query the content
and this is where this coming from this
is coming from the live network we're
not pulling from
other people's queries at this point in
time because
privacy yay and so in ipfs 0.5 it was a
huge gain
coming from 45 seconds to an average
about 5.4 seconds
week over week in 0.6 as we continue to
make like
tweaks and improvements and as people
just upgraded the network
like the big gain here from 0.6 to 0.7
going from
5.4 to 3.8 to 1.5 seconds like we're
seeing pretty pretty consistently 1.5
seconds and 100
success in fine time um this is just
being because people are are upgrading
from o4
23 to 0.6 and 0.7 so tell all your
friends
upgrade get the latest um bit swap
improvements
also as part of a collaboration with
netflix
one of our engineers dirk was working
with them to work on
transferring data within their
transferring containers around
and so we worked on bit swap
improvements to
improve the ability when you have
multiple seeders so here on the left you
can kind of see some graphs of
the various levels of previously in
in master which was our old bit swap and
then the
poc which is now live you'll see that
when you have more seeders it's now much
more effective which is really really
great
and additionally in jsipf s like such
big gains there in data transfer speeds
like you're looking at
you know over 50 percent gains in
throughput there um
for just doing some small tweaks so
really great stuff
molly talked a bit about hardening um
this was a big focus this year obviously
large networks eth2 launching this year
um
filecoin launching this year like it's
very important for these
these networks to have a lot of
integrity and so
with that we took two endeavors here one
is gossip sub one one and so we we spent
some time
a lot of thought went into this with the
little p2p team our research team
working with our collabs to figure out
you know what what do we need to do to
to make this make this hardened
um and secure on the network and so
working with test ground again
to test out attacks to
go through various harding techniques
you can read more about it in the blog
post
a lot of improvements there and we were
able to land that in both go
and javascript uh thanks to the folks at
chain safe landing in javascript
so that's huge huge ones there for the
dht hardening you can kind of read about
this blog post but
we uh some researchers reached out
earlier this year and like hey we found
some vulnerabilities
and we collaborated with them um for the
the o.5 release like
it actually used to be fairly easy to
eclipse a node and evict people from the
routing table
now that's significantly harder again we
leveraged test ground
to do this um and we actually ran some
like
24-hour attacks against some of our own
bootstrap nodes
without any like any consequence low
eviction rates it's been really really
great
so awesome stuff there
then noise quick and more um so yeah we
replace secio with noise noise is in the
all seven implementations of lippy to p
it's the the standard
protocol for the ethernet work as well
uh big wins there
switching over to quick has saved us in
round trips which is why you're seeing
additionally some improvements there in
the dht query times um just reducing the
the amount of latency that we have
backbone
connections um and then a whole slew of
other stuff custom dac formats and jsi
bfs
you can now peer nodes in in go ipfs
which has been super valuable for
clusters
and then last but not least something
that we're working on right now
um jsipfest has already released this
pinning improvements
so moving pinning into the datastore out
of the dag
um you can see here kind of in this
graph of where jsi
pfs used to be this blue line on top
the more pins you have the slower and
slower it gets go ipfs is the yellow
line in the middle
after the fix js is has been level um
and the go ipfs 0.8 rc
is out just launched this week so if you
want to test out the pinning
service performance please do um we
would like to make sure that is fully
functioning before we fully release
make sure everything's good to go we've
done testing on rn testing out our
services
we want to get as much testing there as
possible and then
i think lida will probably talk about
this a little bit later on um but remote
pinning services are going to be landing
and this is going to be really valuable
for people who want to
leverages services like pinata or
infuria
to be able to offload say hey can you
hang on to this
for me you'll be able to configure
remote pinning services
in go ipfs and js ipfs will also be
releasing with this
and what that'll let you do is those
services can then pin it
on your behalf and you can do that
directly from the ipfs clients
so again this is in the go ipfs 1.8 rc
um so feel free to play around with it
and
i think that's it don't forget to update
don't forget to upgrade when 0.8 comes
out
upgrade and uh thanks everybody